---
layout: post
title:  "What it felt like to "know" at a Young Age"
date:   2022-09-30 00:50-00 -0400
hrt_date: 442
categories: [WithMyVoice]
permalink: 2022/12_December/09/what-it-felt-like-to-know-young
author: Natalie Aspen Trinket
---
I'm so tired of seeing discussions about how children can't know that they're transgender or whatever before X age while I know for a fact that I did. I don't expect to sway anyone who has a hard-line stance on that idea, but I want to explain how that felt for me and the situation I was in. I have another post that covers why I came out so late despite knowing so far back, but I just want to cover how it felt to have always known.
---
### My earliest memory
The earliest memory that I associate with the idea of being transgender or at least being uncomfortable with the role that I had, was when I was around 3 or 4. I remember my mom getting my siblings and I dressed and getting upset that I couldn't wear the same things that my sister got to wear, and that I looked so "plain", I remember specifically using that word. I of course was convinced that I was supposed to wear my clothes and that my sister, who is a little over a year younger than me, had much smaller clothes than I did.
---
## Context
I think from here it's important to set the scene a little bit because the rest of the memories and feelings are dependent on it. My father is very religious, he's Christian but I don't know the denomination other than it's some level of fundamental. My mom left him when I was 5 because he was abusive and started to put me and my 2 younger siblings in danger, from there we had visitation every weekend where he'd pick us up after school on Friday and drop us off at School on Monday (Or pre-school at the start).  
My mom did everything she could to make sure the 3 of us had a relationship with him, but he and I never got along very well, some of the memories I'll share will show why, but I essentially stopped visiting with him after the age of 14 when he said some very (Personally) dangerous religious based rhetoric while I was the mental hospital that broke any ties I felt for him. 
I'll probably make another post at some point going over why I was in the hospital, but the gist of it was that I was in and out of the hospital from age 14 to 17 because I was constantly angry. Only over the past year did I start admitting and working through the fact that I'd been angry at myself for never coming out.  
  
After my mom left my father, she started seeing a woman who I'd call neenee, and she would become my second mom. They'd be together until I turned 18 or so when circumstances and a head injury would tear them apart. During the early years that they were together, my mom was a local advocate for LGBTQ rights in our area, and while I couldn't go to the protests or meetings myself because of my mom's fear, I knew what she was doing and I met her friends all the time. I was in the LGBTQ space and I wasn't ignorant of what it was, or who I was.  

As a final bit of context, I didn't have access to the internet until age 13 or so. Before that I used the technology we got from yard sales and roadside auctions, resulting in me using cassette players, radios, walkmans, and typewriters. The reason this is relevant is that my community consisted entirely of my family, family friends, a couple of friends at school, and my father's family until I started homeschooling at 13. Even after that, I didn't find a niche online until I turned 17, I was just wandering and lurking online, so I never got any feedback on how I was treating myself.  
I've always been very secretive about who I am and what I'm doing, especially online. This blog is the first place, other than to my best friend that I found online, where I've almost any of this information. But I've learned that this can help people and that if I'd come across it when I was 13, I'd have been the better for it. 
---
# Memories
Now for the actual memories. I'm going to do my best to keep them in chronological order and keep them as concise as I can while referring to the context above. 

### Dress Up
I'm not sure when this started, or when it stopped, but I have a distinct memory of doing this when my father was asleep downstairs and doing it after my mom left him. My sister and I would have rooms close together, and after we moved away from our father our rooms were connected. So we'd wake up, or stay up, at night and play dress up while our parents slept. We'd tear my sister's closet apart and she'd pick the clothes out that we'd both wear over and over again for what felt like hours. Since we're only a year apart, we were much closer in size by the time we were doing this compared to before and she always had tons of costumes and random clothes that she rarely wore, so there was always something to try on that we hadn't before.  
It's honestly one of my favorite memories I have with her and our mom recalls walking in on us a couple of times when we got too loud after she left our father, so I at least have some amount of confirmation in that.

### Learning the word Transgender
Despite being wrapped up in the LGBTQ space with my mom, I'd just kind of assumed a lot about what was going on without asking questions about it. When I was 8 or 9, someone explained in detail what it meant to be Transgender. I don't remember how it came up, who it was, or even the way they explained it, but I remember it contextualizing what I'd been feeling at the time. I'd thought about it for days, and it was the first time I started journaling because I couldn't keep it all in my head.  
I don't have that journal anymore. I don't remember if it was thrown away or just lost, but I remember some of what I would have written about. I was getting what felt like jealous of my sister for what she got to do with her clothes and hair, and every time I had to cut my hair short it made me angry and sad beyond almost anything I'd felt. But no one knew. Even back then I was starting to hide it.  
I knew that my father's family didn't agree with what my mom was doing, or even who she was by being with a woman, but it was so early in the movement by comparison to now that I'd never even heard them mention the word, Transgender. Even if they hadn't spoken out against it in front of me, any time I expressed any interest in what my sister was doing, or my hair would get too long, or even if I picked up a "feminine habit" they'd call it out. My mom would do similar things, but always in a joking sense instead of a malicious one, but it just reinforced what my father's family said and the idea that coming out would just be a joke.  
But it did feel better to have a word for how I felt, and even though I already knew that other people felt the same way, to know who they were and have a label for that group was better. This time period is one of the reasons that I hold on to the idea that labels matter, even if they get cumbersome to people on the outside.

### Going Online
I mentioned that I wasn't online until I was 13, but once I was online I of course explored everything that I could. I found that there were a lot more words that described who I was, and a lot of them were said in disgust or a twisted kind of lust. Those words, and the people I saw using them, contextualized what my mom was fighting for when I was growing up and just made me tired. 
I was just hitting puberty at the time, and I didn't get any of the normal sex drive that comes with it, I later learned that was because I'm asexual, but that didn't keep me from worrying about it. Everyone I saw online was so focused on it, it never seemed to stop between ads, clickbait, and jokes that I felt like I was just broken and that it might be part of why I was Trans. I started down a rabbit hole of why that would be and came across the idea of autogynephilia. Yes, instead of finding actual Transgender resources, I found something that would actively harm my self-image, and it did, I hated it. It didn't make any sense to me, but like many other trans people I got "excited" on the rare occasions that I was euphoric and I _wanted_ to be female, so it seemed like it fit. But I wasn't "attracted" to the idea, I didn't get any lust from it and I still don't, so I should have realized that wasn't what it was. But I was alone, and I didn't know any better. So I dug myself further into my anger and set myself up for a trap later down the road.

### Puberty
Around the same time, I started online school and went online, I started puberty. I know, gross. But I think it's an important topic in the context of being Trans, at least in my case, because it's when my dysphoria started to hit the hardest. Before this time it was just jealousy and mental confusion about where I fit in, but now I didn't physically fit the image I had of myself. Knowing what was coming, yet still having that weight of not wanting to come out for the same reasons I always had just wore on me.  
I felt like there was nothing I could do. I didn't know that there was a way to get more time, and I didn't know that it would get harder as I aged. All I knew was that I was tired and angry. That everyone around me either laughed at me or scolded me and that I was changing in ways I didn't understand or couldn't control. The standard "your body is going through changes, but it'll be ok, you'll come out the other side a better man" speech didn't help me, it just confused me more.  

### The Hospital
It's at this point that I start going in and out of the hospital and my timeline gets even fuzzier. I have issues remembering exactly what happened and in what order, nothing mattered enough for me to hold on to the memories, so it's just a mess of anger, pain, and short bursts of happy moments. I'm working on collecting my medical records, journals, and memories from my mom to get the timeline together for myself, but I'll go over some of what I remember and what I've pieced together.  
I first went into the hospital because I was getting too aggressive and reactive toward my family. I was threatening (even hurting) my siblings, scratching at my arms till I bled, going off the handle at anything without warning, and spending days manic. I needed to be there, I was acting out and needed the help, but I was lying to them. It was a stopgap until I couldn't handle the anger anymore, so I kept going back, getting worse and worse.
Each time I went it was mostly the same situation, either I was starting to get too far into suicidal ideation that I was finally reaching out for help or my mom couldn't handle my outbursts/mania. Then when I was in there, I'd calm down and fall into the routine. I'd get to answer their questions, get my med update, and be out in a week or two. But there were a few visits that had a hiccup or two, and I've mentioned a couple already. 
### My father's phone call
I don't think this was the one that came up first, but one of the times I was in there he called me to check in. I still wasn't doing great, I hadn't fallen into the routine yet and I was explaining what had put me in there that time. The frustration that I'd felt at my siblings or something, it was misplaced anger but it was coming through that route at them, and his response was, and I swear this is burned into my head "Well I understand that it's hard, but I think if you pray on it you'll find the answer and get better. I'll add you to the prayer list at church and pray for you tonight. I hope they can work on getting you off those medications soon." I just started crying so much harder, dropped the phone and ran back to my room.  
After everything, he and my grandfather had said to me about the diagnosis I have, and the fear I felt about coming out at any point, I was done with him. I didn't want to visit and I didn't want to keep pretending that I wanted a connection. He showed me that everything that I was going through was contextualized through his religion and that he still believed what he told my mom when I was born, that navy men don't have sick babies. 
#### The confrontation
I did something that I regret to this day, on so many fronts but particularly two. I stole my mom's clothing, and I didn't tell her why when confronted. I'm fuzzy on the ordering still, but my moms raided my room one of the times I was in the hospital and found the clothing I had stolen and talked to the hospital staff about it. They then set up a meeting between me, my mom, and a counselor where they told me they found it and asked why. I wouldn't tell them. I spent so long denying it to myself, and everyone around me that I wasn't ready to say it in one confrontation like that, especially not in front of a stranger. My mom felt violated, and she made an accusation that kept me from coming out after the confrontation was done because it was one that I had feared myself when I was younger, she asked if it was a sexual thing for me. It just broke me to hear her ask that, but I understood why she did, and it just made it worse.  

